Okay. One of the most educational lessons that I
believe that I ever observed in my life on the ranch
was down on Pepper Bluff. There's only one passage
up that bluff that you could get over it and get to
the Three Springs Passage. Horseback. And you had
to go around the point of the bluff, and if you
didn't have a sure-footed horse, you're... just
as sure to get dunked in that hole of water, which
was about 10 to 20 feet deep as you were for, dime was
for a ginger snapper. Now that was regular, but
that was the only way we could get there. And we'd go
up this bluff and go to Three Springs Pasture to
gather the cattle to bring back. We didn't bring
them back that way. We'd have to take them a mile and
a half to two miles up the river to cross them. Now
that was real work. And you knew what you had to do,
and you didn't ask questions. But we came around
the point of Pepper Bluff, which Definitely the
water comes right up to the bluff itself, and you
bring your horse right down at the edge of it, and
the rock slants into the water, and it's slick as
owl's grease. And if you're not very careful, and
you must give your horse its own time. Don't kick
him. Don't spur him. Let him feel his way and let him
be a sure-footed person. He's got more sense about
that than you have. Right. So let him go. And we got
around this point, and I saw an old mama coon, and I
hollered at my daddy, and he took his finger up to my
mouth and he shook it to be quiet. Mm-hmm. And I went
on over to where he was. He said, I want to show you
something. All right, she came up this trail, and
she had four babies behind her. Oh, yeah. And she
got up to this pond. I said pond. She got up to this
hole of water. Mm-hmm. And just before you get to
this real deep hole, there was an eddy water hole
out at the side, which was about, oh, I guess maybe
12 inches deep. But you could see the fish running
in it, and you could see lots of minnows, great big
red-hossed minnows. And we were way back, not way
back, but we were... I guess we were about 25 or 30
feet back and there was a big rock in front of us. So
we put our horses there and my daddy told me to get on
top of this rock so I could watch all the
maneuvering. So the old mama coon raccoon yeah but
we call them coons out here comes up this trail and
she gets to this hole this eddy water and she takes
number one and sets him and she just takes him with
both hands with her front feet and just socks him
down on that ground just like he'd been bad and she
chattered something of course she chattered to
him which to me meant you sit there she gets number
two and sets him number three and she gets number
four and she takes him behind these babies comes
over here and she goes into this water and she
catches um Red Horse Minnow. And she has it in both
paws when she gets out. And she gets down. and puts
it in her mouth, and she just shakes it and shakes it
in this water. Then she takes both hands and washes
it and feeds this baby over here. She goes back and
she puts this baby way over here, away from the rest
of them. She goes back and she gets this other baby
and moves him up, and she chatters and chatters.
She goes in... And she gets another one. This time
she gets a perch. She brings back. She catches it.
And you'd be surprised. She dives down in under and
comes up. It's fantastic to see how she does.
Catches them with her paws. Yes. And brings them
out. And then... Number three was smart. There's
always got to be a smart aleck in every group. So he
goes up and gets ahead of her and goes in. Man, she
got him, she brought him back out of that thing and
she just shook him just like you would shake
somebody with her two front feet. Just shook him
good and popped him down and he didn't get one.
until she fed the next one. And then she finally fed
him. And to me, that was one of the greatest lessons
that I have ever learned in that you mind your
parents, and you take what they give you, whether
it's first or last. She's calling. Did you get that
animal fed? Uh-huh. Go see her stomach. I bet it's
full all right. Well, thank you, sweetheart.
Okay.
I'll see you. Okay. Okay. But that to me was one of
the greatest lessons. Uh-huh. I mean, even
animals are taught to obey their parents. Even
animals are taught certain things that will help
them. That society of the animal world is real.
Absolutely. The family structure is real. That's
right. And where are we? What are we doing to our
family structure? We're tearing it apart. There
isn't a family structure in this country anymore.
But it was with them. I know. All right. What
does...
When you take a Kildee, when you go down on the river
and you get near her nest, she falls over. She plays
dead. She flops and she winks and she cries. Well,
you know better. If you know a Kildee, you know
better, right? If you know a Kildee, you know
what's wrong, so you go on. And she is attracting
your attention. Right, and pulling you. And
pulling you away from her baby. I've had that
happen. That's mother instinct. Mother
instinct. Oh, yes. That's so true. We're very
close to that animal world, and we just don't like
to think that sometimes. We just don't like to
recognize it. But it's true. Right. All right. Do
you remember yesterday when I saw the twin deer,
Fawn and the mama deer, the doe on the bank and they
were down watering? Uh-huh. That head was working
on a pivot. Right. Going back and forth, back and
forth, watching. Uh-huh. She didn't make a noise.
She merely snorted. And what did they do? They
moved. All right. A mother can stand out here at the
side of the road and watching her child, and she'll
scream 40 times for him to stop. And he'll say,
well, what do I have to do for her? That's a
breakdown in the chain of bonding. That is exactly
right. That's a bonding break. It really is. A
mother will stand and say, don't get out there in
that street. You're going to get run over. Don't do
that. Well, why? I want to go across the street. But
when that mama deer snorted one time, they left
that water. Yeah. They did. They really did. They
led the blue streak right up that hill. They sure
did. They got out of the way. We're above animal
life. We're supposed to be. We are. But what has
happened to us? We're not bonding with our
children any longer. That's right. Not at all.
There's mothers and babies aren't bonding.
Fathers and babies aren't bonding. No. And unless
you bond with your infant, It's a very dangerous
world. It's worse than dangerous. It's worse than
dangerous. Well, it's like the day was. I know we
really didn't have hospitalization for women,
which is a marvelous thing because fewer women die
in childbirth nowadays than they did back even in
the 40s. But I think there's a problem, in my
opinion, is again that in the sterility of the
American hospital, right now American
gynecologists, Ava, are fighting to keep
midwives from working in cities. They don't want
registered midwives. People who've been nurse
practitioners and nurses, they don't want women
delivering women's babies anymore. And I know you
can tell me something about that. I know that's
very true. I was quite a young girl, and 12 o'clock
at night, we had no doctor here. He had gone to a
convention, and he wasn't here. There was none at
Blanco. There was none at Fredericksburg. This
knock came to my door and said, Miss Ava, my wife's
in labor, and we're having a baby, and I don't know
what to do. And I said, my land, man, I don't know
either. But I'll come. I'll do what I can do. So I
went down there, and she was in labor. My land, I'd
never done anything like that. Was this before you
had your own? Yes, it was long before I had. See, we
were married six years before Perky was born. So
this was about four years after we'd married. I was
about 22 years old. Or hardly, maybe 21. But I went
on down there. And I felt so sorry for that woman.
She was just really having a hard time. And I said,
well, honey, I don't know anything, but it looks to
me like if you'd put your legs up in rafter shape in
the bed and put your hands on them and push down on
your legs, It might help you. I don't know anything
about this, but maybe... You must have been
terrified. I was terrified, and I was afraid she
was going to die, and I didn't know what in the world
I would do. I just was scared to death. And I said,
then keep pushing. Well, the second time come
around and push, well, out come Mr. Baby just
really crying. Well, there I was. What do you do?
Mm-hmm. What do you do in a case like that? I didn't
know about cutting a cord. I knew the afterbirth
was chained to it. I knew if it wasn't taken care of
at a certain time, that it would die. And I knew if it
wasn't cut off at a certain time, it'd bleed to
death. And I didn't know doodle and do. And there
wasn't any telephone. There was two telephones on
our street. Two! From the garage up to Klitz. One at
my house and one at Klitz. And that was all the
telephone. So I said to him, I said, did you know
anything about this? And he was a father, and
they'd had two before. He said, I've had a doctor
each time, and I don't know. But they usually cut
the cord and tie it. And then the afterbirth will
pass. Oh, I said, oh, I don't know. I don't know. I
just don't know what to do. But anyway, I got a
spring and I tied it. I tied it on and then cut the
cord. It was just guesswork. I really didn't know.
And I just kept saying, well, God, if you'll just
give me the strength and tell me and help me out,
just help me through this. I tell you right now,
there was a constant prayer going through my mind
all the time because I just didn't know. And there
wasn't anything that we could do because there
wasn't anybody we could get. And so in a little bit,
she passed after birth. Well, all right. Then I
went ahead, cleaned up the baby, and clothed it,
and put it back in her bed. Then I cleaned her up and
cleaned up the bed, which I had it pretty well
padded already. I didn't have any plastic. I had
oil cloth, which came off the table. I got the table
cloth and put under it so it wouldn't get on the bed
or anything. And I cleaned all that up. and cleaned
her up, and he was born on Halloween night. Oh, my
goodness. Now, if you don't think that I was, I felt
like a witch, well, you're just, you're just poor.
But they got along just fine. But I was just 22 years
old. And that was the first baby you ever
delivered. Ever delivered. First one that I'd
ever seen born. I delivered lots of calves. I
delivered lots of little pigs. and lots of lambs
and goats, but I never delivered a baby. That was
something else. But that was a part of life because
everybody knew it was coming, right? Yes. You knew
that it was going to happen one way or another.
There was going to be babies. They couldn't be too
much different. from the other, but for the same
token, these were animals, and this was a little
life. This was a little human being that I was
dealing with. Was this a family from the city, a
regular long stand? They worked as, he was a
mechanic, and his name was Phelps, and he spelt it
P-H-E-L-P-S.
And
he was a good man. and a good woman, but they were
poor. They were honest, but poor.
I'll never forget that. And Olin would wipe. I just
perspired. I mean, the perspiration. It wasn't
perspiration. It was purity sweat. Did you ever
deliver any more babies after that? Oh, yes. I bet
you were just designated midwife then. I was
designated midwife for a long, long time. I
guarantee you that. Now that's something. That's
something that we just don't see anymore. You just
don't see and you don't have to do it. Unless it's a
woman physician, women don't touch women
anymore. Oh, no. You realize that? No, no. Women do
not touch and help and deliver babies except in the
poor communities. Well, I had twins down here at
the ranch. Uh-huh. And they called me. The
doctor's out of town. He called me, and I went down
and delivered twins. Really? To Tony Gonzalez's
mother. Really? Right out here that works on
the... And when he called today about that car, I
said, Tony, take care of it for me. I don't have
time. He said, I will, Miss Silver. I'll do
anything you ask me to do. Yeah. All right. It was
his mother that I took care of. Right. Naturally,
he's not going to turn me down. Of course not.
That's a bonding in the community between you and
the people that you're close to. That's right. Do
you think that maybe we're just so sterile in our
society today? I think so. That we just don't touch
each other, we don't deliver our babies, we don't
wipe the bodies clean before we bury them? No, sir.
We don't touch each other? Uh-uh. Not anymore.
That's a crime that we're committing against
ourselves, isn't it? I think it's one of the
biggest... Well, it's something that we've lost
touch with. Yeah, it is. It's something that we
have grown out of that means so much to life. To me,
it does. To me, too. I do believe that. I really do. I
never thought of it in the manner that Ms. Kammack
explained it to me. Right. But, boy, she made a
believer out of me. And she taught me, and she
worked me, and I was her sidekick. She was an old
lady when she took me under her wing and taught me to
do these things. And I owe a lot to her. And I love
her. She was a wonderful person.
She and Aunt Mary were first cousins. Oh, were
they? They were. And you know how I loved Aunt Mary.
I do. And you know how Aunt Mary loved me. She did.
And she gave me a very bad time because I hadn't
brought any deer meat. That's how I went with you.
Yes, she did then. She was fussing at you for not
bringing her any deer meat. Every year, if I didn't
bring her deer meat, she would get me. So I always
managed to take her near me. She was the sweetest
thing. Aunt Mary Galbraith was her name. Right.
And she was 100 and what when she died? I believe
she's 106. Yeah, that's what I had thought it was
too. 106 years old. Incredible. And you know she
busted Lennon's little old fanny knot one time.
But it doesn't. Well, mine too, as far as that goes.
They'd take us over there to a picnic or a barbecue
on the 4th of July. And she lived down close on the
creek. And we'd go to Aunt Mary's, and she had a
fenced-in yard, and we'd play in that creek and
whatnot. And she told us not to wait in it and get our
clothes dirty because we didn't have a change. We
did it. And boy, she laid it on us. She didn't ask any
questions. She laid it on us. Never will forget one
time we was over there and she said, well, I'm one
person in Blanco that can say I've spanked the
president. that's cute just you know she was cute
she was smart right up to the last minute i like that
that's a good line i'm one person i'm one person in
blanco that can say i spanked the president that's
great seriously she said she asked me she said do
you remember when you cried and begged to go at your
daddy and he told you you had to stay here with me And
I said, yes. And he said, you remember you just kept
crying? I said, sure do. He says, what happened? I
said, you just spanked me good. He said, if you've
got to cry, I'll give you something to cry for. I
remember that. Yeah. If you've got to cry, I'll
give you something to cry for. And she swatted me
about three swats at that hand, and I realized I
didn't have a thing to cry for. Yeah. But I just
wanted to tag along with my daddy. Sure. That's
all. Right. That's something. No, it's just a
spoiled kid. That's right. I know. That's what you
were, a spoiled kid. When it came to your daddy.
Yes, it was. I can see why. If I wanted anything, I'd
call up in his lap. I'd love him. I'd tell him how
sweet he was. Pretty quick, I got it. I want a new
bridal. That's the way I got it. I never asked for
clothes or shoes or find things. I wanted a new
bridle or a new saddle blanket or a new girth for my
saddle. It was always something for my heart so I
could follow just a little closer to my daddy. Now
that is so right. There were three children and I
was my daddy's boy. Right. I can see. I was my
daddy's boy and nothing more. And it's just like a
lady said, well, Wilma Fawcett, a cousin of mine
said, you know, I just can't see you quilting and
crocheting and doing the fine artwork that you do
today when I can see you riding the roughest bronc
that ever rode up there and calves and roping.
That's both sides of the story there as a woman.
Your versatility speaks for itself, doesn't it?
Yeah. You do. My daddy wanted me to know how to roll.
You didn't have to give up one ounce of your
femininity, one ounce of your womanliness. I
didn't. And at the same time, you had all the fun of
the boys. I sure did. And I could ride just as long as
they could and rope just as good. I know you could
enjoy it just as much. And when I look back, that old
house up there that's taken as a bride, and I know
that in 1935, I
won enough money. In the barrel racing and the
breakaway at a rodeo, to buy that bathroom, it
means a million dollars to me. Oh, I know. I know.
That bathroom over there that you bought by racing
barrels. I love it. Racing barrels and breakaway.
Men and women, it's open breakaway. Right. And I
won first place. And every dime of it went for
bathroom. 1935. The equalizer in Texas was the
horse because it gave us cowboys and it gave us
cowgirls. And there's no doubt that we had some of
the finest women in history were cowgirls. That's
right. And let me tell you then, It wasn't
commercialized like it is now. It was this old gal
out here in the country that picked up, well, can
you do it? Get out there and show them if you can do
it. I'll never forget, I rode old Eagle, which
belonged to Blackie Johnson, and he's a
cold-jawed outfit that ever lived. Yet he was a
good horse and a smart horse. And I was coming back
on that last barrel from the end of the field and I
reached back with my spurs and grabbed him and I
mean I hooked him in there and what we did, we came
right through that arena, jumped that darn gate,
went right around that racetrack. And there was no
way that I could stop him. And I was doing well to
stay on. And I hooked him with those spurs to stay
on, and he was going that much faster. Oh, I'll
never forget that if I live. was a double show.
Uh-huh. And what was that? What rodeo was it? Oh, at
Lamb Passes. At Lamb Passes? At Lamb Passes. What
year was that? About 19... I guess about 1936.
Uh-huh. How about that? How about that? Well,
it... That was something else. I bet my mother was
sitting there watching because she lived in
Kintner. I want you to know that that grandstand
got up They hooped, they hollered. I bet they did.
Well, it was a show, I'm not kidding you. Because
when I hooked around that last barrel, I just
reached back with my spurs and I hooked him. I
didn't know that he had been on the racetrack. I
didn't know that. He was quite a ho. Man alive, it
was all I could do. You talk about an old girl
clawing leather. I just laid down just like a
little leech. That's all you could do on that
horse. And we went right on over that gate. They
didn't even have time to open it. We just went right
on over the gate, went right on around that
tractor, And when they come back, the snubbing,
the bronze snubbing horse caught us. Yes, I was
happy to get off. I bet. Well, that's another part
of your life. But I think women cheat themselves
today. Well, I don't say that it's a wonderful
thing or anything like that. I think it's
wonderful that you know how to do it. I think it was
something that we learned as children to excel in.
Horsemanship, you mean? Horsemanship. And lots
of times, your horse is a lot smarter than you are.
Probably, yeah. I know. I ride. And I enjoyed it.
Yeah. Up to this day, I have a record for three
barrels, figure eight, three barrels, the full
length of the rodeo standing. Yes. Really? In 11
seconds. Wow. Yeah, that's fast time. You know why
it's fast time? I'm gonna just tell you. Okay. They
asked me what, they asked me about, I asked when I
entered. I know what it's like. Do you have to, is
there any regulation as to how you ride? Uh-huh.
No, just ride. I got me a polo saddle. Oh, yes, I did.
When you go around those barrels, hook that leg up
around the weathers of that horse so that you don't
hit it. Right. So you don't turn your barrel over.
Yeah, that was my problem. All right. If you'd had a
polo saddle and you'd pull those feet up. Yeah. you
know, right up around his windows. And you have
that flag in your mouth. Take it out and stick it in
that bucket. Pick the next one up and stick it in
your mouth. Yes. Getting around the next one. Yes.
And the next time I rode, I rode bareback. It's
easier to ride bareback than it is to ride with a
polo saddle. Well, when you're kicking the
stirrups and you're going around those things,
your leather's bound to scrape. Sure is. I know. I
used to knock my barrels over every time I rode. But
if you ride bareback... You won't be doing that.
That's what it did at Lamb Passage. That's true. I
mean, not at Lamb Passage, but at Goldsway. Right.
That's how I know the horse shifts with the weight
from that saddle. He just moves right into it. Sure
he does. You can't help it because he's not on a
curb. At Goldsway, I rode bareback. Yeah. I won
money there. Wow. But then it was all right, but now
it's common. Oh, yeah. So what? So what? I'm going
to stop here for a second. All right.